Auto Gather/Build - Automatically gathers resources (and uses Turkimp on metal). Auto speed-builds your build queue and auto-researches science on demand.
Better Auto Fight - Will automatically handle fighting. It gives you autofight before you get the Battle upgrade in Zone 1.. .CAUTION: If you autoportal with BetterAutoFight disabled, the game sits there doing nothing until you click FIGHT. (not good for afk) 
Auto Stance - Automatically swap stances to avoid death.
Trap Trimps - Automatically trap trimps when needed, including building traps.
Buy Storage - Will buy storage when resource is almost full. (like AutoStorage, even anticipates Jestimp)
Buy Jobs - Buys jobs based on ratios configured below. CAUTION: you cannot manually assign jobs with this. Toggle if you need to.
Buy Buildings - Will buy non storage buildings as soon as they are available
Buy Upgrades - Autobuy non equipment Upgrades
Buy Armor - Auto-Buy/Level-Up the most cost efficient armor available. 
Buy Armor Upgrades - (Prestiges) & Gymystic. Will buy the most efficient armor upgrade available. 
Buy Weapons - Auto-Buy/Level-Up the most cost efficient weapon available. 
Buy Weapon Upgrades - (Prestiges) Will buy the most efficient weapon upgrade available. 
Buy Shield Block - Will buy the shield block upgrade. CAUTION: If you are progressing past zone 60, you probably don't want this :)
Run Unique Maps - Relies on AutoMaps to choose to run Unique maps. Required for AutoPortal. Also needed for challenges: Electricity, Mapocalypse, Meditate, and Crushed (etc). Needed to auto-run The Wall and Dimension of Anger. 
Auto Heirlooms - Automatically evaluate and carry the best heirlooms, and recommend upgrades for equipped items. AutoHeirlooms will only change carried items when the heirlooms window is not open. Carried items will be compared and swapped with the types that are already carried. If a carry spot is empty, it will be filled with the best shield (if available). Evaluation is based ONLY on the following mods (listed in order of priority, high to low): Void Map Drop Chance/Trimp Attack, Crit Chance/Crit Damage, Miner Efficiency/Metal Drop, Gem Drop/Dragimp Efficiency, Farmer/Lumberjack Efficiency. For the purposes of carrying, rarity trumps all of the stat evaluations. Empty mod slots are valued at the average value of the best missing mod.
Hire Scientists - Enable or disable hiring of scientists. Math: ScientistRatio=(FarmerRatio+LumberjackRatio+MinerRatio)/25 and stops hiring scientists after 250k Farmers.
Manage Breed Timer - Automatically manage the breed timer by purchasing Genetecists. Sets ideal anticpation stacks. If not using AutoStance, this will probably be undesirable... Picks appropriate times for various challenges (3.5s,11s,30s). Delays purchasing potency and nurseries if trying to raise the timer. EFFECTIVELY LOCKS THE BREED TIMER
Geneticist Timer - Breed time in seconds to shoot for using geneticists. Disable with -1 (and Disable ManageBreedTimer) to disable the Hiring/Firing of genetecists (and potency upgrades). CANNOT CHANGE WITH MANAGE BREED TIMER OPTION ON
Farmer Ratio - 
Lumberjack Ratio - 
Miner Ratio - 
Max Explorers - Map the planet!!
Max Trainers - Fist bump me bro
Max Huts - 
Max Houses - 
Max Mansions - 
Max Hotels - 
Max Resorts - 
Max Gateways - WARNING: Not recommended to raise above 25
Max Wormholes - WARNING: Wormholes cost helium! Values below 0 do nothing.
Max Collectors - 
First Gigastation - How many warpstations to buy before your first gigastation
Delta Gigastation - How many extra warpstations to buy for each gigastation. Supports fractional values. For example 2.5 will buy +2/+3/+2/+3...
Max Gyms - 
Max Tributes - 
Max Nurseries - 
Void Maps - The zone at which you want all your void maps to be cleared (Cell 96).  0 is off
Prestige - Acquire prestiges through the selected item (inclusive) as soon as they are available in maps. Forces equip first mode. Automap must be enabled. THIS IS AN IMPORTANT SETTING related to speed climbing and should probably always be on something. If you find the script getting stuck somewhere, particularly where you should easily be able to kill stuff, setting this to an option lower down in the list will help ensure you are more powerful at all times, but will spend more time acquiring the prestiges in maps.
Auto Portal - Automatically portal. Will NOT auto-portal if you have a challenge active, the challenge setting dictates which challenge it will select for the next run. All challenge settings will portal right after the challenge ends, regardless. Helium Per Hour portals at cell 1 of the first level where your He/Hr went down even slightly compared to the current runs Best He/Hr. Take note, there is a Buffer option in the genBTC settings, which is like a grace percentage of how low it can dip without triggering.  CAUTION: Selecting He/hr may immediately portal you if its lower.
Challenge for Helium per Hour and Custom - Automatically portal into this challenge when using helium per hour or custom autoportal. Custom portals after cell 100 of the zone specified. 
Custom Portal - Automatically portal AFTER clearing this level.(ie: setting to 200 would portal when you first reach level 201)
Limit Equipment - Limit levels of equipment bought to:(level 11 - the prestige level). At or Above Prestige X (10), your equipment will remain at level 1. In other words, do not level equipment after ~level ~51, and only buy Prestiges. CAUTION: may reduce He/hr performance in many cases.
Breed Fire - Fire Lumberjacks and Miners to speed up breeding when needed. (Not genetecists).
Max Toxicity Stacks - Get maximum toxicity stacks before killing the improbability in each zone 60 and above. Generally only recommended for 1 run to maximize bone portal value. This setting will revert to disabled after a successful Max-Tox run + Toxicity Autoportal.
Run New Voids - Run new void maps acquired after the set void map zone. Runs them at Cell 95 by default, unless you set a decimal value indicating the cell, like: 187.75  CAUTION: May severely slow you down by trying to do too-high level voidmaps. Use the adjacent RunNewVoidsUntil setting to limit this.
Void Difficulty Check - How many hits to be able to take from a void map boss in dominance stance before we attempt the map. Higher values will get you stronger (by farming for health) before attempting. 2 should be fine.
Disable Farming - Disables the farming section of the automaps algorithm. This will cause it to always return to the zone upon reaching 10 map stacks. TROUBLESHOOTING: Save and Refresh when you toggle this, if necessary. INFO: The new Trimps 3.22 map-buttons greatly eliminate the usefulness of this. ALSO: NO LONGER DISABLES SIPHONOLOGY. 
PauseAutoTrimps - PauseAutoTrimps(notincludingthegraphsmodule)
Warpstation Cap - Do not level Warpstations past Basewarp+DeltaGiga **. Without this, if a Giga wasnt available, it would level infinitely (wastes metal better spent on prestiges instead.) **The script bypasses this cap each time a new giga is bought, when it insta-buys as many as it can afford (since AT keeps available metal/gems to a low, overbuying beyond the cap to what is affordable at that first moment is not a bad thing). 
Cap Equip to 10 - Do not level equipment past 10. Similar to LimitEquipment, Helps for early game when the script wants to level your tier2s to 40+, but unlike LimitEquipment, does not impact Zone 60+.
Skip Gear Level 58&59 - Dont Buy Gear during level 58 and 59, wait till level 60, when cost drops down to 10%.
Delay Armor - Delay buying armor prestige upgrades during Want More Damage or Farming automap-modes.
Dynamic Siphonology - Use the right level of siphonology based on your damage output.
Farm on >7 NomStacks - On Improbability(cell 100). Meant to be used with DisableFarming (otherwise farming would take care of this, but its slower). If Improbability already has 5 NomStacks, stack 30 Anticipation. If the Improbability has >7 NomStacks on it, get +200% dmg from MapBonus. If we still cant kill it, enter Farming mode at 30 stacks, Even with DisableFarming On! (exits when we get under 20x)
AutoRoboTrimp - Use RoboTrimps ability starting at this level, and every 5 levels thereafter. (set to 0 to disable)
He/Hr Portal Buffer % - When using the He/Hr Autoportal, it will portal if your He/Hr drops by this amount of % lower than your best for current run, default is 0% (ie: set to 5 to portal at 95% of your best)
Run New Voids Until - Put a cap on what zone new voids will run at, until this zone, inclusive. 
Always Buy Lvl 2 Armor - Always Buy the 2nd point of Armor even if we dont need the HP. Its the most cost effective level, and the HP _need_ script isnt always adequate.
Dynamic Prestige - EXPERIMENTAL: Skip getting prestiges at first, and Gradually work up to the desired Prestige setting you have set. Runs with Dagger to save a significant amount of time until we need better gear, then starts increasing the prestige setting near the end of the run. ---NEW ALGORITHM 7/23/2016--- Examines which prestiges you have, how many missing ones youd need to achieve the desired target and starts running 5 maps or 2 maps every zone, Until the target prestige is reached. Example: For mace, starts getting the prerequisite prestiges 10 zones away from max, then more and more, finally reaching the desired prestige by the last final zone (also goes for 9 mapbonus on the last zone). IMPORTANT NOTE PLEASE READ: Final Zone Number is inherently tied to the AutoPortal setting. When using the Helium per Hour setting, it uses the zone we portaled at last run (game.global.lastPortal). If the AutoPortal is set to a challenge, it will use the last zone of the challenge. CAUTION: EXPERIMENTAL, please come to Discord chat if you have problems.
undefined - undefined
Run Bionic Before Spire - Run the Bionic Wonderlands I through VI and then repeatedly farms VI(level 200) before attempting Spire, for the purpose of farming. WARNING: The point at which it stops farming has yet to be fully decided upon or set in stone, so it currently runs Bionic VI until it runs out of new prestige item rewards, then runs Bionic VII until it runs out of prestige items from that one, and then attempts the spire. This amounts to somewhere around 144 minutes. DO NOT USE WITH HE/HR PORTAL. Not meant to be used every time, He/Hr suffers.
Cap Trainers to a % of Tributes - Only Buy a Trainer when its cost is LESS than X% of cost of a tribute. This setting can work in combination with the other one, or set the other one to -1 and this will take full control. Default: -1 (Disabled). 50% is close to the point where the cap does nothing. You can go as low as you want but recommended is 10% to 1%. (example: Trainer cost of 5001, Tribute cost of 100000, @ 5%, it would NOT buy the trainer.)
PrestigeBackup - Acquire prestiges through the selected item (inclusive) as soon as they are available in maps. Forces equip first mode. Automap must be enabled. THIS IS AN IMPORTANT SETTING related to speed climbing and should probably always be on something. If you find the script getting stuck somewhere, particularly where you should easily be able to kill stuff, setting this to an option lower down in the list will help ensure you are more powerful at all times, but will spend more time acquiring the prestiges in maps.
Auto Heirlooms2 - New algorithm for Heirlooms. While enabled, the old AutoHeirlooms algorithm will be disabled (the button will stay lit or you can turn that one off). CAUTION: Turning this on will immediately re-sort your heirlooms according to the new algorithm, and turning it off again DOES revert to the original algorithm even though it may NOT have a visible result on your heirlooms. (fyi: This lack of action highlights one of the problems with the old one.) 
AutoGoldenUpgrades - Automatically Buy the specified Golden Upgrades as they become available.
Auto Upgrade Heirlooms - Automatically buy the upgrade the script advises for the Equipped shield and staff, until we are out of nullifium.
Minutes to Farm Before Spire - Farm level 200 maps for X minutes before continuing to beat spire (0 to disable)
Auto Maps - Automatically run maps to progress. Very Important.
Auto Worker Ratios - Automatically changes worker ratios based on current progress. WARNING: overrides worker ratio settings. Settings: 1/1/1 up to 300k trimps, 3/3/5 up to 3mil trimps, then 3/1/4 above 3 mil trimps, then 1/1/10 above 1000 tributes, then 1/2/22 above 1500 tributes. Uses 1/40/8 in Spire since we get plenty of metal from that.
Warpstation Wall - Do not level Warpstations if it costs over 1/4th of the current metal we own. (Experimental) 
Exit Spire After Cell - Exits the Spire after completing cell X. example: 40 for Row 4. (0 to disable)